IMT 542 G5: Measure capabilities of existing project structures using FAIR
Em Stelter, 5/18/2026 (thank you for your patience)

Instructions: Create a text file based version of the FAIR model and describe how your structure for the project intersects with FAIR, adding comments to each major topic to justify and indicating with a 'F', 'A', 'I' and or 'R' in the text. Use the examples from the class reading. Aim for 4-6 sentences that cover as many relevant areas of your project that implement the FAIR guiding principles. You do not need to cover every FAIR principle, only the relevant ones, using the class reading examples as a guide. Consider the major topics from:

Upon receiving feedback from Prof Gustafson, my project involves pulling an RSS feed from an Archive of Our Own (Ao3) fandom webpage (example: https://archiveofourown.org/tags/236208/feed.atom), which contains the key metadata I am interested in scraping and visualizing, converting key metadata elements to a portable (likely json) structure, and then using that structure to create Python-based visualizations (likely using Plotly.express because these are interactive!) describing and analyzing the metadata.

F - For all fanworks posted to Ao3, the available metadata fields mostly satisfy F2: Data are described with rich metadata. That is, each fanfic or other fanwork (sometimes people post art, videos, audio, or other media) has a set of defined metadata fields that can precisely describe the data within. This has the caveat that not all metadata fields are always filled out -- Ao3 users are only required to provide their work with a title and the name of a fandom, I believe, and sometimes choose to leave other metadata fields blank. However, this is often an intentional choice that reflects the nature of the work. (For example, someone posting an essay analyzing a TV show might not choose to use relationship tags for their Ao3 work, unlike someone writing a fanfic that centers on one or more character relationships.)

A - Ao3 assigns each fanwork a unique URI / numerical string as part of its URI, so metadata attached to each Ao3 fanwork has a unique identifier already, meaning that the project will satisfy A1: Metadata are retrievable by their identifier using a standardised communication protocol. However: I will not be including unique identifiers as part of the analysis in my project. The main reason for this is I plan to pull metadata from fanworks that are archive-locked--that is, only available to other Ao3 users. This is an intentional privacy choice. I believe that including archive-locked fanworks is important for having representative data, but I intend to preserve authors' privacy and choice to not have the content of their fanworks widely available to any internet user by not including their unique identifiers in my finalized json structure / dataset.

I - In my Github I will include in the ReadMe a breakdown of the metadata fields I've chosen to visualize / analyze for users unfamiliar with Ao3 / Archive of Our Own. Fanfiction writers / fanwork creators can be a fairly insular group, and fan communities can still be fairly niche; I intend to ensure my project satisfies I1: Metadata use a formal, accessible, shared, and broadly applicable language for knowledge representation.

R - R1.2: Metadata are associated with detailed provenance - As I said above I intend to balance Ao3 users' privacy with the desire to include a representative dataset for the fandom I choose to visualize, so my project may not fully satisfy this FAIR criterion. However given the reasoning for not including unique URIs for every fanwork included in my dataset, I think this is a reasonable exchange.
